<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<contentList>
	<content contentuid="78132664-62d9-4b51-a972-109b8f1ad693" version="1">Kuo-Toa are a nascent psionic race. The power of their sheer collective belief is enough to manifest magic. It is believed that their own imagination birthed Blibdoolpoolp, a paranoid, reality-denying deity of the sea known for questionable sanity.</content>
	<content contentuid="e79feae3-9916-4876-b33d-f756342451df" version="1">The animosty of Kobolds vs Gnomes is ancient. Kobolds harbor a deep grudge ever since Kurtulmak was buried in a mountain as part of a "Prank." According to Treatise Historical of the Dragon Tyrants, kobolds enslaved gnomes and Garl Glittergold collapsed the mountain to free his people from kobold cruelty.</content>
	<content contentuid="d3e51c41-a6c3-42f3-a741-1bc9cbdbae80" version="1">Across Faerun, there are a variety of "True Dragons" including Chromatic, Metallic, Ferrous, Planar, Gem, and Lung. There are also Air, Cobra, Deep, Fang, Force, Mist, Moon, Prismatic, Pyroclastic, Radiant, Rattelyr, Song, Sun, and Time dragons; and Brainstealers (horrible Illithid creations), Dzalmus, Vishaps, Hellfire wyrms, and the Abishai that serve Tiamat.</content>
	<content contentuid="6c2fb862-489e-4150-9596-8dc0b2d9d31a" version="1">Yugoloths created barghests when Maglubiyet refused to pay for mercenaries. These shapeshifters hide among a tribe until it can devour the soul of Maglubiyet's favored goblins. Barghets owe their masters seventeen souls before escaping to Gehenna, one for every oath Maglubiyet broke.</content>
	<content contentuid="3c46d604-6380-493a-bdf9-89fb32013052" version="1">Zariel was once a powerful angel, but her all-consuming focus to slay demons was her fall from grace. Zariel was betrayed and imprisoned and siphoned for power, before reclaiming her place as Archduchess of Avernus and the Lord of the First. Her story is one of humiliation, pain, suffering, imprisonment, cruelty, and paranoia. The only relief is the destruction of her enemy, the blood of demons, and winning the war.</content>
	<content contentuid="577eafce-8c70-43c1-ba78-8c5d8440bd15" version="1">Rumors suspect Yugoloths intentionally help both sides of the Blood War just enough to maintain the conflict in status quo. Soul gems are used to pay for their services, a more potent and valuable version of the Soul Coins you find scattered across your adventure.</content>
	<content contentuid="bf1ee36c-30ef-4a4e-aeb5-14c41d31f4c4" version="1">"My legions are the only thing standing between your precious Seven Heavens and the bottomless hunger of the Abyss. I did not fall into the clutches of evil. I rose to shoulder a cosmic burden." - Zariel.</content>
	<content contentuid="8fc93388-faa6-4f97-8955-7ad50d9ab6f2" version="1">Drow and Gith societies are predicated on avoiding signs of weakness at any turn. From birth, they look over their shoulder lest their own mothers strangle them in the crib.</content>
	<content contentuid="53987a46-ac4a-4662-8b45-628cb438887d" version="1">The original "Hell Riders" were the mounted cavalry guard of Elturel. Faced with infernal threats, Zariel appeared and offered to lead a cavalry charge into the hells themselves. Many riders broke ranks and fled, closing exit behind them, trapping Zariel. Zariel swore revenge, and orchestrated Elturel's descent into Avernus decades later.</content>
	<content contentuid="37d0f03b-ae39-4384-b1d5-391b2e644455" version="1">The bitter disposition of Elturelian tieflings stem from their memory of a time before they became enslavement in Avernus, part of Zariel's cruel punishment for a betrayal that happened a generation before their time, and the subsequent bigotry faced when they returned to the Prime Material.</content>
	<content contentuid="69b30313-a8bf-46d6-a2c4-1c9127656854" version="1">As a consequence of Karsus's Folly, the damage to the Weave was so great that Mystryl sacrified herself. Mystryl reincarnated as Mystra who, in repairing the weave, limited mortal access to magic to 9th level spells. She gives visions of the destruction of the Netherese to clerics and wizards who pray for her wisdom, and Karsus is memorialized as the enduring warning of what no mortal should ever attempt. Still, some - perhaps those you travel with - believe they could survive apotheosis.</content>
	<content contentuid="fcf5d1d3-3d8d-4ca3-9f13-10d6d81cb9a8" version="1">Volothamp "Volo" Geddarm might sound, look, and act like a bumbling fool, but his disarming persona has allowed him to survive an audience with dragons, gods, and devils.</content>
	<content contentuid="8a4a33da-84ca-4856-bf0c-b44ba6965a6c" version="1">Volo's guide books are widely ridiculed across Faerun as being full of embellishment, bluster, lies, speculation, and nonsense; but buried at the heart of everything is a grain of truth.</content>
	<content contentuid="a92e0a7f-aee5-42a3-8335-83c1efc32583" version="1">Volo's fool act is so convincing, that Mystra made him a Weave Anchor. Not even Volo knows this. Mystra believes that even if this secret was discovered, no one from Asmodeus to Zariel would ever be able to take Volo seriously enough to believe it.</content>
	<content contentuid="109cf068-f8c1-4ee3-bd22-bae47f18b539" version="1">Should Volo die, due to his own foolishness or your own, the Weave itself may unravel.</content>
	<content contentuid="dcd0aacf-b2d5-4283-9513-7f2c41b13a1e" version="1">Elminster pretends that his job as Volo's editor is to prevent the spread of incorrect information. In reality, Volo sometimes - rarely - discovers something so powerful and dangerous that publishing it could threaten the very realms. Elminster subtly alters Volo's notes and intercepts manuscripts to obscure Volo's discoveries with injected nonsense.</content>
	<content contentuid="7e6a768f-ab42-4d31-b968-b400932a652f" version="1">Beholders are believed to be capable of altering reality around them with their dreams, and the longer they stalk a region the stranger their influence becomes. Some suspect that new beholders are not created by mating, but when beholders have nightmares of imagined-turned-real rivals.</content>
	<content contentuid="34d06c2f-6b5d-4855-bdd9-9e79860a482f" version="1">Aboleths pass perfect memories to their children, meaning they can remember all the way back to the time before even the gods existed in the Forgotten Realms. Yet they have no memory of where Illithids come from, and that really concerns them.</content>
	<content contentuid="eac5fa97-dbf4-46f4-8f53-0016be791f0c" version="1">You can open the Mod Configuration Menu by hitting ";" - you should probably leave most mod settings alone, but you can manage your vanity gear transmogs here.</content>
	<content contentuid="22fe1322-7f27-4f31-b2ff-aa4ce7fa4a36" version="1">Use CAPS LOC to toggle WASD movement vs WASD camera control. Use ` to toggle highlighting creatures. Use ALT to toggle tool tips on objects around you.</content>
	<content contentuid="d81d0b07-0523-4de4-8def-6b63b68d626a" version="1">Being undead has its perks, and its drawbacks. Many beneficial effects and spells may stop working on you, but you may find that some necromancy spells now heal. Be wary of Clerics and other enemies who can turn, or control, undead!</content>
	<content contentuid="28cef7d5-1646-4677-a1e5-4889334836b4" version="1">As you draw closer to the heart of the Absolute, your enemies also grow in power. They are at their strongest in Baldur's Gate, where illegal arms smuggling, murderous cults, vile magic, and accumulated hoards have armed even the smallest foes with the means to threaten you.</content>
	<content contentuid="5296b658-4e4f-4bde-8ff8-36f20b3ffb13" version="1">All deities submit to Ao, whose edict limits their ability to directly influence the world (or intervene in the plot of the Absolute). Few in the Realm believe that Ao submits to an even greater power or powers.</content>
	<content contentuid="15bc74a9-16db-493f-8963-75460391f299" version="1">On other planes, magic may work in unexpected ways. In the Elemental Plane of Water, for example, fire-related spells are difficult or impossible to cast; and in the Shadowfell, healing spells fizzle. More bizarre effects are observed the further you travel from the Prime Material, such as clockwise gravity.</content>
	<content contentuid="78ec52c0-d041-400b-8110-6279e34ce039" version="1">In the Shadowfell, laughter truly can be the best medicine. Non-natives experience malaise, fatigue, depression, memory loss, and sapped willpower that worsens the longer they visit. Exposure is known to cause a kind of ego death where victims fade away, with only their dolorous memories able to haunt the Realms in the form of shades and other undead. A Bard can be indispensible for surviving Shadowfell excursions.</content>
	<content contentuid="79f42e9a-4891-4eb9-8e62-57d1c04cd38a" version="1">The original Viconia DeVir was greatly moved by her journey alongside the heroes who ended the last great Bhaalspawn plot. Little is known of her fate after the Gorion Ward's quest - or where the woman calling herself "Viconia" in Baldur's Gate came from.</content>
	<content contentuid="252ee6d6-4d26-4457-9962-6e8be0268500" version="1">You can give merchants gold to like you more. Think of this like an investment in lowering your future prices. This is useful for merchants like Dammon or Withers who you will see throughout your journey.</content>
	<content contentuid="6c9f1047-fcab-473b-b8e1-8201d122c6bb" version="1">Your highest party member modifier is used during dialogue, lockpicking, and pickpocketing - meaning your most experienced companions can help make up for any skills you lack.</content>
	<content contentuid="94d0f352-4555-4174-995c-ec8a5dacac50" version="1">Your party will accrue exhaustion by being knocked down in combat, fleeing combat, or spending too many rounds in combat. Some exhaustion can be removed with a Short Rest, more exhaustion is removed with a Long Rest.</content>
	<content contentuid="99ef84b0-1e96-492f-8e3c-99082fa56051" version="1">The "Dark Urge" is a relentless force. Once per long rest, the Dark Urge can rise from an otherwise fatal blow - but must make a Wisdom saving throw to avoid the compulsion of its progenitor.</content>
	<content contentuid="c5daedab-4e5d-4228-a6c0-3ed8f2fb999d" version="1">Forgot your shovel? Scratch has a dig command!</content>
	<content contentuid="3b38d426-05df-4cb5-8a8c-1233e99c2287" version="1">Gale's condition does not like to be ignored. Failing to feed the Netherese orb can cause Gale's magic to become... unpredictable.</content>
	<content contentuid="f443e33e-af1f-4afd-8119-4c1197158780" version="1">Dammon's time in the Nine Hells taught him unique smithing techniques, and he produces weapons that can be combined with Soul Coins for powerful effects.</content>
	<content contentuid="81d147ea-7d5e-4274-88eb-897853e24514" version="1">Vecna stole the secrets of life and death from Orcus, and used them to become the first lich. Orcus never forgives, and their cults have worked against each other ever since.</content>
	<content contentuid="1384c760-622b-4acc-9d36-a651f7924617" version="1">When Zariel fell, her second-in-command hid her sword somewhere in Avernus. Their hollyphant companion poured its divine essence into the blade, and it is fabled to protect any true hero from the fires of the Nine Hells. Some hope that if Zariel could be reunited with this sword, it would reawaken any Good left in her.</content>
	<content contentuid="3f3dea23-b427-4afd-8a2f-d0cb781b2caa" version="1">Fiends are never truly killed, unless slain on their native plane.</content>
	<content contentuid="fdeed173-d3f6-4365-85f0-a1c66b5bdf43" version="1">Thank you for playing Listonomicon. Please show the makers of the hundreds of mods and everyone who helps Ajax keep this list working some love.</content>
	<content contentuid="b61309e8-da94-4ea3-b732-ee76f3ed9622" version="1">Jarlaxle Baenre is scorned as a dastardly pirate, thief, and criminal; but working for him is regarded as the most reliably way for drow to escape the Underdark, and Lolth's wrath. Allegedly he lost his favorite piwafwa in a drinking game somewhere in Baldur's Gate.</content>
	<content contentuid="4eba8b22-6ae2-48eb-a2e6-a09b87476f42" version="1">Manshoon, the original Zhentarim, made clones of himself to ensure the continuity of the Black Network after his death. Instead, the moment he passed, the clones begin fighting each other. The Zhent civil war to follow is known as the "Manshoon Wars."</content>
	<content contentuid="76031d21-3dab-4796-8339-3129fdb078cf" version="1">Goblins come in many forms and subraces. The most rare and mysterious are "Blues," goblins born with psionic talents.</content>
	<content contentuid="53e271e7-755c-4967-882c-d24a4e5374f2" version="1">Candlekeep is a library-fortress. Visitors can only gain entrance by paying with a book not already in the library's collection.</content>
	<content contentuid="f4dc92d4-298a-4053-a345-308483f97b81" version="1">When Bhaal forsaged his own death, he seeded the Realms with as many of his children as he could. These "Bhaalspawn" each carry a small spark of Bhaal's divinity. One Bhaalspawn is expected to slay the others, collecting all of these sparks into themself as a vessel for the rebirth of Bhaal. The last time this almost happened, Amelyssan the Blackhearted decided to try to become the new Goddess of Murder herself rather than complete the pact.</content>
	<content contentuid="3660fbc9-484d-4948-ad81-b264a5560d86" version="1">Psionics were once more common in the Realms. When it threatened the Elven Wizard-Kings of ancient ages, arcane casters conspired to destroy psionics rather than tolerate a rival. Entire civilizations were buried under torrential currents, and some suspect that Kuo-Toa "magic" is the consequence of ancient psionic artifacts seeded in forgotten caverns and buried in the oceans.</content>
	<content contentuid="1db5b5a9-9e19-4e2d-bc74-a6d5f7e1d95e" version="1">Dragons and fiends are known for their abilities to shapechange at will. They often combine this ability with powerful magic, like a Ring of Mindblink, to hide their identities from magical scrutiny. It is safe to assume that any casual stroll through Baldur's Gate could involve walking past infernal agents and voyeuristic dragons without ever realizing. Be careful!</content>
	<content contentuid="27c6285a-eb09-4233-af69-43ff88b50805" version="1">Illithid tadpoles can infect more than just humanoids. "Brainstealers," for example, are the result of unlucky dragons captured by Mindflayers.</content>
	<content contentuid="162326b2-cc56-4806-b5d0-f309c1611518" version="1">Mindflayers shun arcane magic. Despite this, "Alhoons" practice wizardry in secret or flee their colonies to study. Illithiliches are the most powerful and unholy result of Mindflayers who combine psionic abilities, magical knowledge, and potent necromancy to become exceptionally dangerous undead.</content>
	<content contentuid="8a88bd23-6558-427a-86df-1488b5339f3a" version="1">There was once a Bhaalspawn named Balthazar. Rather than seek Bhaal's power, he hoped to slay all other Bhaalspawn and then kill himself - taking all of Bhaal's divine power with his death rather than allow Bhaal to return.</content>
</contentList>
